---
# still tentative. unsure how to handle citation/names
# name file as YYYY-MM-DD-some-identifying-words.md
layout: paper

title: "Collaborative, Multidisciplinary Evaluation of Cancer Variants Through Virtual Molecular Tumor Boards Informs Local Clinical Practices"
# YYYY-MM-DD. Should be either most recent preprint posting, or date published.
date: 2020-07-09
# should be a single string.
# Any formatting is fine but be sure to update everyone's pub_names if needed
authors: "Shruti Rao, Beth Pitel, Alex H. Wagner, Simina M. Boca, Matthew McCoy, Ian King, Samir Gupta,  Ben Ho Park, Jeremy L. Warner, James Chen, Peter K. Rogan, Debyani Chakravarty, Malachi Griffith, Obi L. Griffith, and Subha Madhavan"
# journal citation matter (not full cite). Should be a single string, probably has to be quoted.
# for arxiv, eg "bioRxiv 118992"
# for journals, eg "Exp Eye Res. 2013 Jun;111:105-11."
journal_cite: "JCO Clinical Cancer Informatics no. 4 (2020) 602-613"
doi: https://doi.org/10.1200/cci.19.00169
pmid: 32644817
# link to article on publisher website
publisher_url: https://ascopubs.org/doi/full/10.1200/CCI.19.00169

# name of file in assets/images/papers/ dir
thumbnail: vmtb-preview.jpeg

# names of lab project(s) to reference
projects:
---
### PURPOSE

The cancer research community is constantly evolving to better understand tumor biology, disease etiology, risk stratification, and pathways to novel treatments. Yet the clinical cancer genomics field has been hindered by redundant efforts to meaningfully collect and interpret disparate data types from multiple high-throughput modalities and integrate into clinical care processes. Bespoke data models, knowledgebases, and one-off customized resources for data analysis often lack adequate governance and quality control needed for these resources to be clinical grade. Many informatics efforts focused on genomic interpretation resources for neoplasms are underway to support data collection, deposition, curation, harmonization, integration, and analytics to support case review and treatment planning.

### METHODS

In this review, we evaluate and summarize the landscape of available tools, resources, and evidence used in the evaluation of somatic and germline tumor variants within the context of molecular tumor boards.

### RESULTS

Molecular tumor boards (MTBs) are collaborative efforts of multidisciplinary cancer experts equipped with genomic interpretation resources to aid in the delivery of accurate and timely clinical interpretations of complex genomic results for each patient, within an institution or hospital network. Virtual MTBs (VMTBs) provide an online forum for collaborative governance, provenance, and information sharing between experts outside a given hospital network with the potential to enhance MTB discussions. Knowledge sharing in VMTBs and communication with guideline-developing organizations can lead to progress evidenced by data harmonization across resources, crowd-sourced and expert-curated genomic assertions, and a more informed and explainable usage of artificial intelligence.

### CONCLUSION

Advances in cancer genomics interpretation aid in better patient and disease classification, more streamlined identification of relevant literature, and a more thorough review of available treatments and predicted patient outcomes.

